Okay.
So in this lesson, we're going to wire up a View X action.
It's going to be the first action method that we write.
The difference between an action and a mutation is that an action is allowed to be asynchronous.
So what we're going to do in our action is we're going to make the call to our API to get jobs.
And then once we receive those jobs, then we're going to commit a mutation, this one right here,
so that our View X Store can receive the jobs that we now have from our API.
So it is in the action method that we're going to do the asynchronous operation and then we're going
to transfer control to an existing mutation.
And since this is our first time writing an action, we're not going to do TDD right now.
We're going to write the implementation first and then I'll show you how to test it later.
So at the very top of this file, I'm going to start by importing our get jobs function that we defined
a few lessons ago.
So right here, import get jobs and that is in a come from the source directory API get jobs.
Perfect.
Then what I'm going to do is I'm going to follow a similar naming structure to what I have with our
mutations object.
So I'm going to define a constant for every action method that we're going to write, because later
on when we run those action methods, we're going to similarly need to have a name for them that we're
going to import in another file.
So I'm going to follow that same protocol as we do with mutations.
The advantage of having constants is that we avoid typos whenever we are calling these actions from
another file.
So right here, I'm going to create another constant that I'm going to export and I'm going to call
this one fetch jobs.
And this is going to be a string of fetch jobs.
So again, just to make sure it's clear fetch jobs is going to represent the initial API request, receive
jobs is going to represent the mutation to our View X Store that says, hey, I have jobs, please save
them to the store state.
Okay, the next thing I want to do is wire up a separate object that's going to store all of our view
X actions.
We're again going to follow the exact same principle we have here where we've separated all of these
constructs into smaller objects that we can then import and test in our test suite.
So right here I'm going to export a new object and I'm going to call it actions.
Let's make an end to it for now.
And before we forget, we do have to add this.
Actions object to our view.
X are sorry.
Our view indeed our view x store configuration.
So right here after mutations, I'm going to provide another key here called actions and we're going
to use E6 in text so that it connects to this object right here.
As a reminder, we use Create Store to create a view store.
Then we have a configuration object where we provide the store, state the mutations and now the actions.
Okay, so in here I'm going to define in my first action method and it's going to be the fetch jobs
when we have right here.
So I'm going to provide that constant in square brackets.
So now I have a method called fetch jobs and we know that this method will have an asynchronous event.
It's going to have the reaching out to our API.
So I'm immediately going to make this method async, I'm going to provide my parentheses and then my
method body.
And of course we need to do two things here.
We need to reach out to our API and then we need to commit the mutation to run this receive jobs logic
right here.
So let's invoke our get jobs function right here.
It is asynchronous, so we need to await it.
So I'm going to do a way to get jobs.
And then as a reminder, this returns back to us, a promise that resolves to have the actual job listings
array.
We're going to do structure all of that information from the Axios object.
So what we get back here is going to be an array of job listings.
Okay.
So we now can imagine that view X is going to wait until this completes and then that asynchronous operation
is done.
We have our job listings now that we have these jobs in an array in our JavaScript program.
We now want to run this mutation.
The question is how?
Well, for every action method that we defined, view or view X is going to pass in an additional helper
object called context, and we can provide that as the very first parameter to view X whenever we run
an action will automatically provide the context object in the exact same way as right here.
Whenever we run a mutation view X will always provide the current state of the view store.
Same idea here.
Behind the scenes, the code and you x will give us this special context object.
This context object is basically similar to a store and it has the exact same API.
So you may recall that when we had our view x store we can call a method on it called commit and that
is the exact same method that we can call on this context object in order to run a mutation.
Remember the commit method runs a mutation.
So right here we're going to do context.
That's our object.
We're going to call a method called commit.
This is a synchronous operation.
It runs immediately, so we don't need to await it.
And of course the first argument to commit is the mutation that we want to run.
Right.
It's a string.
Which one do we want to run?
This one right here.
We have a constant for that mutation right in this file.
So we can go ahead and simply put it in line.
We want to run, receive jobs.
And then, of course, the second thing we want to provide is the actual array of job listings.
We need to give that state to our store.
So remember in our Mutations method right here, we provided the View X Store State.
That's always the first argument.
And then any subsequent arguments we defined in line and the way it works is any subsequent arguments
that we provide to the commit method will flow in as the second and third and so on.
Arguments after state.
So if I provide my job listings as my argument right here, that means that this is going to be what
Jobs represents right here.
It's a little bit of a confusing concept because this method is called commit and this method is called
receive jobs.
But the way that view X works is it says this is the method that I need to run and then anything afterwards
that you give me as arguments, I'm going to pass in after I pass in the state to your mutation.
So you, you says, okay, I need to run, receive jobs and I always need to provide my U.S. store state
as my first argument always.
And then anything you give me after the mutation name in this commit method, I'm going to pass in.
So here I'm going to pass in my job listings.
And similarly, if we add additional parameters here like B and C, then you actually pass them in like
so.
So we can write mutations with multiple methods.
Right now we only need one, which is our job listings.
All right.
So that's that's all there is to it.
This is a separate new object full of methods.
The methods can be asynchronous.
That is the big difference between actions and mutations.
So actions can do something like do an asynchronous operation to get jobs and then simply run an existing
mutation to receive that data.
So your mutations will always be synchronous.
They always have to be plain JavaScript code that can run instantaneously while your actions can be
asynchronous.
All right, so that takes care of our first action.
In the very next lesson, we're going to see how we can test it.